All right.
So let's get into marginal analysis.
Let's start with this exercise.
A company that builds coffee machines calculates that their weekly costs.
So we're dealing with the costs are given by the function see of X equals 0.10 x squared plus 154 X
minus 20 where X is the number of machines produced.
So we have three questions.
A estimate the cost of producing the one hundredth unit.
Look at the keyword estimate then be calculate the actual cost of producing unit 100 and see calculate
the actual cost of producing a hundred units.
Yes b and c are different things.
Unit 100 is different than 100 units.
All right so might be a little tricky but I want you to get in the habit of understanding marginal analysis
problems.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and give this one a shot.
All right.
So we have a cost function and then for a one to estimate the cost of producing the 100 units.
So of course the first thing we need to do is find the marginal cost.
Lets call this MC.
Marginal Cost is a derivative of the cost.
So marginal cost will be the prime of X right and the derivative of this.
So we have constant multiple.
We have a constant so we put it on the outside that 0.10 times bring our dictator down six times to
X one of less power.
Gives you one.
So we dont market plus constant multiple 1:54
and the derivative of X is just one minus the derivative of 20 which is a constant which is zero.
All right.
So in other words our marginal cost function is 0.10 times two is 0.20
X plus 1:54.
All right so were being asked to estimate the cost of producing the 100 units.
So remember we have a mnemonic for this.
The mnemonic says marginal minus one.
So if we want to estimate the cost of producing unit one hundred marginal minus one tells us that we
need to plug in ninety nine into this marginal cost function.
So instead of plugging in a hundred marginal minus one its going to be a hundred minus one which is
ninety nine see Prime of ninety nine.
This is the secret sauce of marginal analysis.
You plug in one less than the unit that you're looking for.
So we're going to plug in ninety nine here so it's going to be 0.20 x.
So we plug in 99 right here
plus 1:54.
If you actually go ahead and plug that in into a calculator that's going to give you one seventy three
point eight and we're talking about dollars.
So I'll put this sign over here.
So our estimate for the cost of producing unit 100 is one hundred seventy three dollars and eighty cents.
Right.
That is the answer for this nice.
All right.
So now we want to calculate the actual cost.
We're not estimating anymore we're calculating the actual cost of producing unit 100.
So here we estimated the cost of producing that unit 100.
Now we want the actual cost of that.
So think about this function the cost function.
This one tells you the weekly cost of producing X amount of machines right.
So if you want to find how much 10 machines cost you plug in 10 if you want to find out how much 50
machines cost.
Then you plug in 50 etc..
So we want to find the cost of producing not a hundred units but the cost of producing that specific
unit number one hundred.
There is a difference it is the same unit that we found here.
Unit 100.
So to find the actual cost of producing unit 100 Like I explained in the tutorial what you do is you
find the cost of producing 100 units and you subtract the cost of producing 99 units.
Right.
What's left must be the cost of this last unit and you do not do this with the derivative.
Remember the derivative is only to estimate.
We do this with the actual cost function.
So what we want to find is c of 100 the cost of producing 100 units.
Mine is c of 99.
The cost of producing 99 units so it will plug in 100 and we'll plug in 99 into this function.
So c of 100 was plug in 100 right.
Here we have zero point 0.10 times 100 squared plus 154 times a hundred minus 20.
All of this mine is.
And remember this minus.
After that we had to put up parentheses because everything else that follows is minus OK its c of a
hundred minus C of ninety nine.
Now we're doing the C of ninety nine part.
So we're going to plug in 99 again into this c of x.
So 0.10 times ninety nine squared plus 154 times ninety nine minus 20.
So let's continue this down here and again feel free to use a calculator for this 100 times 100 is ten
thousand ten thousand times point 10 is 1000.
So we have 1000 plus 154 times 100 is 15000 400 minus 20.
That is the C of 100 and then we do minus open parentheses.
And here we're going to put this c of ninety nine ninety nine squared times 0.10 is eighty times on
plus 154 times ninety nine is two 246
minus 20 OK.
So if you grab all of this and you put it in a calculator.
In other words if you grab this sea of 100 that's going to give you one thousand plus fifteen thousand
four hundred that is sixteen thousand four hundred minus 20 is three hundred eighty minus whatever this
part was.
So let's calculate that eighty point one plus fifteen thousand two hundred and forty six is sixteen
two to six point one.
And if you subtract the 20 from that gives you 16 2 or 6 point 1.
Finally if we subtract this from this we're going to get our final answer 173 point nine dollars.
There we go.
That is the answer to this second question.
And actually if you check it out.
So the actual cost of producing unit 100 is 173 0.9.
Our estimate was one seventy three point eight.
That's a pretty good estimate.
It just differs by 10 cents.
Not bad at all.
All right.
And for the last question calculate the actual cost of producing 100 units.
So and B we found the cost of producing one unit unit 100 here we want to find the actual cost of producing
the first 100 units.
So all we need to do is plug in 100 into this function for cost.
However we already did that in problem B because remember we did see over 100 minus C of 99.
So the amount that we want is actually this one right here.
This is c of 100 to see of 100 equals
sixteen thousand three hundred eighty
And that is our answer down here.
All right.
So that is set for this problem.
Again we got a cost function.
So if we want to estimate the cost of producing unit 100 then we find the derivative of this marginal
cost and we plug in one less.
So if we want to find for the one hundredth unit we had to plug in 99 next we found the actual cost
of producing that unit one hundred.
So thats going to be the cost of the first 100 units minus the cost of the first ninety units.
The difference between the two must be the cost of that last one hundredth units.
And in fact we got here that it was one seventy three point nine.
Our estimate was one seventy three point eight.
That was pretty close.
And finally to calculate the actual cost of producing 100 units again that was just sea of 100 because
were calculating the cost of producing units 1 through 100 altogether different than just unit 100 here
were counting all of the units from 1 to 100 and we already had this number because we calculated it
and B so the cost of producing 100 units is sixteen thousand three hundred and eighty.
That's it for this problem.